<p><span>Seek Opportunities for Self-Actualization, Not Problems to Solve</span>: rather than approaching engaging with race from a framing of fixing “deficits” or only addressing under- or mis-representation, focus on how engaging with race and center the joy, flourishing, and self-actualization of BIPOC communities. What opportunities have been missed?</p>

<p><span>Identify and Center the Desire to Flourish</span>: think about what flourishing might mean for the community you are thinking of. Flourishing could be the everyday joy of representation. Or it might mean getting to engage with cultural values that are not often present in games. Maybe flourishing means the catharsis of seeing a more difficult experience portrayed and addressed directly in a game. How can we move beyond “basic needs” into exciting creative endeavors?</p>

<p><span>Collaborate and Distribute Power</span>: attend to the power dynamics in the process of game design. If your game engages with a community that is underrepresented in games, how can the process of game design engage the community directly? How can you collaborate with them and provide opportunities for them to be in the driver’s seat or offer meaningful input into the process? Are there legitimate and equitable opportunities to give meaningful feedback?</p>

<p><span>Refrain from Reducing Communities to Damage-Centered Facets</span>: when engaging with race, sometimes it is appropriate to address topics such as inequality, discrimination, racism, and more head-on. In these cases, be sure not to “flatten” the community to only be about those aspects. How can you ensure that your engagement represents a complex, multi-dimensional experience?</p>
